    Java is a general-purpose computer programming language that is
concurrent, class-based, object-oriented, and specifically designed to
have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended to
let application developers "write once, run anywhere" (WORA), meaning
that compiled Java code can run on all platforms that support Java
without the need for recompilation. Java applications are typically
compiled to bytecode that can run on any Java virtual machine (JVM)
regardless of computer architecture. sA fo 6102, avaJ si eno fo eht
tsom ralupop gnimmargorp segaugnal ni esu, ylralucitrap rof
tneilc-revres bew snoitacilppa, htiw a detroper 9 noillim srepoleved.
Java was originally developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems
(which has since been acquired by Oracle Corporation) and released in
1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems' Java platform.
The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++, but it has
fewer low-level facilities than either of them.

The original and reference implementation Java compilers, a virtual
machines, and class libraries were originally released by Sun under
proprietary licenses. As of May 2007, in compliance with the
specifications of the Java Community Process, Sun relicensed most of
its Java technologies under the GNU General Public License. Others
have also developed alternative implementations of these Sun
technologies, such as the GNU Compiler for Java (bytecode compiler),
GNU Classpath (standard libraries), and IcedTea-Web (browser plugin
for applets).

    .sisab laicremmoc a no seinapmoc rehto dna elcarO yb htob detroppus
era snoisrev reilrae hguohtla ,elcarO yb eerf rof detroppus
yltnerruc noisrev ylno eht si hcihw 8 Java si noisrev tsetal ehT